hi i'm jonathan with the rookie academy
today today i'd like to share with you
some concepts to help you ski bumps more
effectively make you feel more
comfortable and well make the bumps feel
a little less bumpy about 90% of the
terrain on most mountains is off the
beaten path or off the grain trail and a
lot of that terrain is bumpy or variable
by developing strong skills particularly
skills of a strong core and the ability
to stay centered on the ski will be able
to explore more of the mountain about 10
times the amount of the mountain that we
could if we didn't have these skills
what we're gonna work with here is some
of it is developing the ability to keep
the core strong and moving the feet back
and forth under a stable upper body to
keep us centered
if we know we're gonna be hitting bumpy
terrain and we know when we hit that
bumpy terrain that has a tendency to
throw us around on our skis or move us
from the front to the back of the skis
in an uncomfortable manner we need to
take some preventative measures to make
sure that we have the ability to stay in
the center of the ski the first thing
we're gonna do is lower our stance a
little bit
in the ankle the knee and the hip I'm
gonna flex slightly trying to feel my
whole foot
I feel the ball of my foot and the heel
of my foot even or I feel like I'm
standing on the arch of my foot with a
little contact the shins of the boots
from here I'm going to engage my core
I'm gonna engage my core by sucking my
belly button back and feeling the
muscles tensed up through the ribcage
from this position of being slightly
flexed with a strong core it's very easy
to move myself along the length of the
skis which is important to be able to do
is when I hit something I'm gonna be
thrown forward or back and I'm need to
get back to this centered neutral
athletic stance that we just explored
there are two main ways to move
ourselves along the length of the skis I
can take my body and move it fore and
aft along the ski or I can take the skis
and I can move them for a nap underneath
me underneath a stable core when we're
skiing on groomed snow in bigger terms
only have lots of time we tend to move
for a nap by sending the body to the
front of the seat and pulling it back to
the center but invariable terrain when
you don't know what's going to happen to
us we need a little more speed and a
faster reaction time and the way we get
that is by keeping the body stable and
moving the feet underneath we can
practice that statically or standing on
flat ground by standing still and moving
the body fore-and-aft leaving the feet
firmly planted on the ground as
demonstrated here keeping the core
strong we can leave the body in the same
place and send the feet back and forth
as demonstrated here my goal here all
standing still is to keep my body
stationary from the pelvis to the head
not moving and moving my feet or my base
of support underneath me
now let's put that task into motion
let's try going across this gentle slope
here and watch as I go across I'm gonna
leave my body in one place and just
shuffle my feet back and forth I'm gonna
try going slow and I'm gonna try going
fast I'm gonna repeat that a couple
times in both directions while I'm doing
this I'm feeling rocking from my toe to
my heel and my heel to my toe the entire
time I'm trying to remain in contact
with my shin to the front of the booty
that's gonna let me know that I have
access to the ability to turn my legs
and tip my feet so much as I need to
this simulates the feeling what the
bumps are gonna do to me and the thing
is that I'm going need to do to recover
as I get them now let's take this into
the bumps just like we did on the grim
terrain we're going to traverse some
bumps but I'm not gonna need to push my
feet back and forth because as I hit the
bump the bumps gonna put skis are gonna
go uphill and my feet are gonna slow
down as they go back down the bump if my
feet are going to speed up and that's
gonna simulate feet moving back and
forth underneath what I'm going to try
to do is limit the amount they slow down
by pushing
bored over the bump I'm gonna try to
limit the amount feet
speed up by pulling them back a little
bit as they go over the bump
now let's put that into some basic turns
we're not gonna worry too much about the
line or where we turn but we're gonna
try to keep centered on our feet by
adapting to the terrain through some
medium-sized turns as we feel our feet
go up the bumps we're gonna let our feet
rock forward a little bit as we come
over the bumps we're gonna pull our feet
back trying to eat the consistent size
of trim the entire time
now that we have a stronger ability to
stay centered and manage the for a
challenges that bumps in variable
terrain give us let's try making this
into some shorter turns and more fall
line oriented bumps cables without
trying to get too much ski performance
we're gonna make some shortest turns
kind of one turn four bump you can the C
reasonably skiddy and taking that
undulating motion of toe to heel and
heel to toe just in one turn each so as
I hit the bump and my feet get pushed
forward I'm gonna start the turn and
then as a accelerate down the bump I'm
gonna pull them back a little bit repeat
that so guys in summary what we've done
today is develop stronger for apt
ability to get us off to the grim snow
and into some basic bumps and conquering
the challenges that bumps give us within
that realm of fore/aft and getting
thrown around we strengthen the core we
lowered the stance and learn to move our
feet under our center of mass versus our
center of mass over the top of our feet
so that we can manage the terrain you
took that skiing and some shorter turns
and bumps going forward keep practicing
that move it to some steeper terrain and
keeping it skitty and round turns as you
get more advanced go a little faster and
start increasing the range of motion so
that you can stay centered absorbing
larger bubbles I'm Jonathan with
work Academy thanks for watching